okay we're good sweet all right the
back-up deployed so go a PFS you guys
mute could you guys mute please Richard
thank you all right so 40 I bffs in q4
we we want to finish up our endeavors
from q3 which includes IPL d and a few
other things like the core API and some
GX stuff and some bandwidth reduction
stuff beyond that what we really want to
do in q4 is make sure that we clean up
dwive EFS make things work better a
documentation make it easier to get into
things like adding more tests all over
the board we made a endeavor for q3 to
get coat higher code coverage on every
repo we haven't quite made that um time
constraints are difficult but I want to
definitely work on finishing that in q4
we also should look at other resource
consumption stuff because we made some
resource consumption goals in q3 that we
didn't really expect to finish in q3
just because those are very broad things
but I think we should continue pushing
that in q4 and then testing testing
testing testing testing that traversal
testing other various scenarios
benchmarking things and really getting
really getting to be more confident
about what we're shipping out and what
we're really pushing on people to use oh
also directory sharding would be really
cool to have done in q4 just because
it's mostly done already yeah so trying
to avoid focusing on new features in q4
because I think it'll be better overall
for everybody involved if we just try to
make it better as
opposed to tacking on all these fancy
things so that's going to be the primary
motivation that said we don't have to
not do new things I'm just protocol labs
in general is going to be focused on
just improvement over all the code base
so if other people want to help work on
new features by all means we'll help out
one yeah I think there's a distinction
between say completely new features and
say things that are sort of in flight
that have been understanding stuff for a
while so for example there is let me put
something like private networks like the
shared private network thing is
something that has been sort of in
client has been discussed that would be
a big deal it is sort of a new feature
but it's sort of in a gray area another
one that comes to mind is not like the
the data store fast search in the file
system thing that has been implied for a
while and we need to do a lot of review
and landing that and getting is getting
this ship so that is something else up
for consideration um I feel like with no
counting as part of its Nicole right now
and I think he he would want to do work
on this quarter there's other things
going on for example I'm talking to
people about different transport so you
EP and click cancel potentially being
able to ship those bills would be mostly
integration on our side they would they
would do them and then we would be like
when it rains and potentially so these
are but these are sort of like new
things I do think that it's do that we
spent a good chunk of time just focused
on improving what we have now and fixing
bugs and um yeah like doing things like
the massive battle is reduction getting
a more stable and that sort of thing
like getting happens to be rock solid
yeah definitely agree so that this is
our primary focus so in particular do we
want to discuss how do we want to run
these calls today do we want to like
discuss details of what we want
so I to accomplish or this quarter or do
we want to maybe focus on I mean honing
in on figuring out priorities but also
get a sense of what what it's going to
take right if things are going to be if
it's high priority and it's going to be
really hard versus its moderate priority
but it's really easy those kinds of
things because that's what but it's
those kinds of assessments that then
impact where things land on the road map
yeah I definitely missed what you just
said because my internet connection is
doing all right I can you hear you know
yeah I can hear you now so basically um
just go ahead and use this time as you
as you need just keep in mind the main
thing you're wanting to get out of this
is figuring it out priorities honing in
on priorities and also figuring out how
hard certain things are going to be so
you can figure out where and how to slot
them into the road map but right okay
lets you see feels cool so the near term
stuff that we're working on is most for
so for most immediate moving to less
immediate most immediate is we're doing
the 0 for 4 release as just the pin set
bug patch so we're hoping to have that
up today basically once we're done with
these calls um so hopefully how that
today pushed it's the what the fix
itself is already merged into master and
then we have a patch that we're applying
on 0 for 3 and that may not be the only
thing applied there so people can get it
out sooner I also have a tool that is
capable of potentially recovering lost
pins if you haven't found a garbage
collection so if you've encountered this
pin bug and you haven't run a garbage
collection um you can run this tool and
it will print out things that look like
pins sorry gone um we probably should
leave that to a post that describe all
this sort of stuff and
right so you're talking we're diving
deep into like discussing like tools and
so on we probably would just want to say
like super high level all right I just
would like to make sure that this is
clear for anybody watching because it's
fairly important um just in general it's
uh Oh grab you okay yeah so that's a
possible thing so just putting that out
there you'll read more in the blog post
when we have that out yeah so now next
is I pld I build us coming soon we're
getting things prepped and ready
switching over to different libraries
for addressing things and then going to
have the Seaboard IPL the nodes
available hopefully quite sick at least
in some development builds so that will
be cool beyond that kevin has been
working on the file store code we're
getting pretty close on that pushing a
lot of compatibility and like interrupt
changes that they're making it easier to
integrate that so we're hoping to have
that in and you know fairly soon not
sure the exact timeline there but that's
it's moving along pretty great beyond
that we have some other things that
we're finishing up from q3 we have the
core API Lars would you like to say
anything on that end fuzzy Lars kami yep
so it's coming along slowly and once
these two chairs that are open and
another one I'm right the Gateway can be
extracted and then that could be a
blueprint for doing more work on the
core API and with the core API acadia we
will have most of the core commands used
the cord guy admits and it's an idiot
project for four people in the community
to jump in because it can be charmed
into very small pieces of work yeah
awesome so yeah we'll get that done next
up is just in general the code coverage
endeavor that we have before q3 we're
probably I'd say maybe halfway done with
that overall which is good and bad it's
a lot of work there's a lot more work
than we expected I think and that's
partially why it hasn't gotten done yet
so we're going to keep pushing that in
q4 and just try and ship more tests
which is never a bad goal and yes so
that's roughly it for the q3 carryovers
um so moving over to like Q for specific
things documentation is going to be a
big thing I want to make an effort to
well make it easier for people to figure
out oh how do I make something with ipf
s in various different modes of that and
I think we'll probably talk more about
specifically would want to see there
later but that's going to be kind of a
big goal for us and yeah so having that
that'll be big on our timeline this
quarter for the next is in general just
clean up so that's going through issues
fixing bugs trying to take our massive
473 issues and trim that down and close
things out clean things up make things
better and generally just pay off
technical debt that we accrued this will
be really really really really good for
the code base and I think it'll provide
a nice a nice you know ramp for q4
leading up into q1 where we can really
start doing some new cool stuff you know
clean up the codebase make it nice get
it ready and then moving forward from
there it'll be a good jumping boy I
think kuba do you want to provide any
updates on anything I don't think so
like I finished working on the goriest
board and the limitation limiting number
of threats locked in
synchronous call so and you ask you
discovered it fixed I PFS on the
Raspberry Pi yeah so with the new
rescore kick because the IPF s no longer
we'll just spawned thousands and
thousands of threads and and also we
used fewer file descriptors per
connection because previously we would
use to file descriptors / network
connection because of the way we use
part was working now we're just using
one reused port for the whole thing and
then um you know per connection one file
descriptor so that's a big improvement
there and also I've noticed enables it
to run normally on a Raspberry Pi
whereas previously it couldn't because
raspberry PI's have thread count limits
so that's really really cool so who ya
any other thoughts on our mat so do you
feel like so do you feel like you'll be
able to build the list of milestones
that you want to put onto the road map
based on the stuff we've discussed up
till now yeah because our q4 goals are
really just going to be like closing out
issues in general like we have a bunch
of open issues there's 470 something of
them and really the main goal is to make
that number shrink and the five-member
shrink in a meaningful way where we're
actually fixing and closing these things
out in just the general things that
people complain about you know fix the
code base go on well I don't think it's
about number right it's about hitting
the more at anyone's right it's a
process of sorting what is the most
critical stuff to to fix and so that is
work that we need that we were we should
be doing now to create like the list of
things that we commit to protects this
quarter right so what you think we
should go through an issues list on
great call no I'm saying we probably
have already surface the biggest things
to tackle they're here so in that pad
for example right like it may be useful
to actually go through the pad to go
through like several of the things here
that we think are valuable or maybe
surface all the things that are not
listed here that we can maybe important
okay so in general just want to point
out we have four minutes left with my
nap time do that's a day we could
probably run a bit into Joseph too
festive ok yeah well I mean it's time
takes long to go over this list so what
we won't want to see in particular is
better test coverage not testing of
networks oh we want to see a continuous
test net running so like a set of nodes
of different versions and different you
know scenarios running user loads
automatically we want to see more
documentation more examples some best
practices of doing things with I PFS
some deep thought I into doing a certain
thing with I PFS posts we want to start
looking at work on I'm actually working
on private networks I don't know if
we're going to prioritize that or not
yet but it's definitely on board we want
to reduce bandwidth usage this is both
DHT content writing changes as well as
fixes to bit slob and potentially
looking at using pub/sub for some of
these we do definitely want to merge the
file star code we are moving along
pretty nicely on that I think Kevin do
you want to say anything on that real
quick or I'm gonna heal me yeah no not
really um I would kind of like to get
this in before too much I pld stuff gets
in because the two are really
conflicting with each other and every
time you mode something you just make my
walk for me
that's just like a I'm sorry that's okay
that's okay I'm just constantly rebasing
we may be mixing conflicts yeah just can
get in not happy i would be cool Kevin
one question so the IPL d changes with a
roblox specifically allow you to point
directly into the fastest time and treat
those as independent objects which is
something that may vastly simplify an
implementation um yeah it was simplified
a little bit however actually I think I
walked with Tom Jo me and I was able to
really isolate that code into like one
or two little modules in it so it's like
a quick replacement now yeah it's it's
pretty clean now so liking it sounds
good cool ok so yeah all right um no
under the most requested things from
people community partners in general as
private networks reduction of bandwidth
reduction of resource usage so memory
and CPU reduction we have a few
different things that we can definitely
hit with this for example pierced or
information here in a disc and you know
other similar things so that's somewhat
low hanging fruit I was still having
killed for example metrics in disaster
ya somos world are dead member hand
cream metrics yeah so there's a lot of
good stuff there that we can hit and
lower memory usage improving
connectivity so improving connectivity
right now means testing connectivity we
need to figure out which situations we
actually need to fix where we go blindly
trying to fix them the guide PFS api so
we need we need to figure out who wants
to captain this and then make a clear
path forward i think the best thing best
way forward for this is to get the core
API defined and then just implement the
go I PFS HTTP API using the core API
like make it even implement that
interface tour integration so this means
working
with open bizarre and looking at the
tour code that they have right now and
auditing this and then figuring out what
all the different security implications
are so that's definitely on the two
lists datastore and file store yeah so
we talked about that the is that one
wrote that did you have anything in
particular or do we discuss this already
know you discuss okay cool and then
sharding so sharding is reviewing and
then getting stuff merged and ya doing
that so that's yeah so that's a not a
huge list but it's a very very important
list and so I think if we work on prior
cut prioritizing those things that we
are going to make some awesome progress
in may be worth sitting that whoever can
going to reach this or maybe we can make
a general note that would be a good time
to start like surface think we will go
through the issues and so on before we
figure out like the final milestones
list for though I business but if people
have certain things they really want us
to remember to post it would be a good
time to like either reference those or
we probably make some way of people
highlighting these things that they
think are super important because we may
be missing something bosal that maybe we
start having an issue like q4 or desires
or goals I can just be sort of like
people just start putting in stuff or
should I do issue specific things hey I
want this because I'm its kind of
duplicating I don't know where I don't
know how the user where I could best
save those things besides i'ma get my
receipt that's what I'm asking so having
like a quarterly issue where people can
comment might be a good idea yeah we
could do that I alternately we could
figure out a way of um trying to source
some notion of like importance from the
issues list I don't know there are tools
that do this that like will parse your
issues and then tell you these are the
ones that have most comments these are
the ones that have most like you know
like the reaction of votes or whatever
it's something like that might be might
give us a very clear view until it's
like project reasons
horses something like project real is so
i'll look into seeing if i can find
something that'll actually log reactions
i know that's a new get in feature I
don't know if that's available through
their API but that's a that's a really
good point and a good question so I'll
just say that all again to that and we
can go forward from that i'll make an
issue on I PFS community about where the
best place to weigh in and go I PFS
issues is in the future going forward
for now i'll make a q3 q4 issue and go a
PFS which is looking comment in the next
coming week or two and that should also
go out to all the people who watch it as
suppose people would just watch this
call so make sense sound good everyone
great all right does that cover the go I
PFS call where King show ya oh cool
alright so the next hour is JavaScript
focused we'll be doing 30 minutes on
orbit and then 30 minutes on JSI PFS and
then all you go people will come back in
an hour to talk about the p2p so take it
away hide